[ADD] accounting/l10n: add section about E-waybill (India) (#3333)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/fiscal_localizations/localizations/india.rst

   .. image:: india/signed-invoice.png
      :align: center
      :alt: verified e-invoice

.. _india/e-waybill:

Indian E-Waybill
==================

Odoo is compliant with the **Indian Good and Services Tax (GST) E-Waybill system** requirements.

.. important::
   Indian E-Waybill is available from Odoo 15.0. If needed, :doc:`upgrade
   </administration/upgrade>` your database.

.. _india/e-waybill-api:

> Registration on your NIC E-Waybill web portal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Registration on your NIC E-Waybill web portal
```

these credentials to :ref:`configure your Odoo Accounting app <india/e-waybill-configuration>`.

#. Login to the NIC E-Waybill web portal on - https://ewaybillgst.gov.in/ by clicking on
   :guilabel:`Login` and entering your :guilabel:`Username` and :guilabel:`Password`.

   .. image:: india/e-waybill-system-login.png
      :align: center
      :alt: E-Waybill login

#. From your dashboard, go to :menuselection:`Registration --> For Gsp`.

   .. image:: india/e-waybill-registration.png
      :align: center
      :alt: E-Waybill registration

#. Click Send OTP, you receive an :abbr:`OTP (one-time password)` code to your registered mobile number.

   .. image:: india/e-waybill-gsp-registration.png
      :align: center
      :alt: E-Waybill GSP options

#. Enter the OTP code and click on :guilabel:`Verify OTP`.

   .. image:: india/verify-otp.png
      :align: center
      :alt: E-Waybill verify otp

#. Check If :guilabel:`Tera Software Limited` is already in List of GSP/ERP Registered.If it is already in list
   then use that username and password else continue to next steps.

   .. image:: india/e-waybill-gsp-list.png
      :align: center
      :alt: E-Waybill added GSP

> #. Select :guilabel:`Add/New`, select :guilabel:`Tera Software Limited` as your GSP Name, and type in a
>    :guilabel:`Username` and :guilabel:`Password` for your API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select :guilabel:`Add/New`, select :guilabel:`Tera Software Limited` as your GSP Name, and create
   :guilabel:`Username` and :guilabel:`Password` for your API.
```

   .. image:: india/submit-gsp-api-registration-details.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Submit GSP api registration details

#. Click on :guilabel:`Add`.

.. _india/e-waybill-configuration:

Configuration on Odoo
---------------------

To set up the E-Waybill service, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings -->
Indian Electronic WayBill`, and enter the :guilabel:`Username` and :guilabel:`Password`.

.. image:: india/e-waybill-setup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: E-Waybill setup odoo

.. _india/e-waybill-workflow:

Workflow
--------

To start E-waybill from Odoo, an invoice/bill must be created with details of E-waybill using the standard

> invoicing/bill flow, that is either from a sales/purchase order or the invoice/bill menu in the Accounting

Reviewer 2: I suppose it is the best way, but technically maybe not required...

Author: the same thing has been done on the e-invoice also should I remove it from that also?

Reviewer 2: Actually, it is fine as it is, because you describe both flows.  (when you have sale and when not).  My bad.

application.

.. _india/e-waybill-send:

Send E-waybill
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. important::
   If E-waybill (IN) is selected in, :ref:`Sale/Purchase Journal <india/e-invoicing-journals>` then E-waybill will

>    be sent automatically when the invoice/bill is confirmed.

Reviewer 3: it's visible if the company's country is India and invoice state is posted and the EDI document for the waybill is not created.

>    be sent automatically when the invoice/bill is confirmed.

Reviewer 2: @jva-odoo But if you click the button and the e-invoice was not created, it will give an error anyways

>    be sent automatically when the invoice/bill is confirmed.

Reviewer 3: If E-waybill (IN) is selected in Sale/Purchase Journal then the EDI document is created when confirmed so you can't see that button

   If you don't want to send E-waybill when confirming the invoice/bill, don't select E-waybill (IN).

There will be button on invoice/bill to send E-Waybill.

.. image:: india/invoice-send-e-waybill-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoice send E-waybill button

.. _india/invoice-validation-e-way:

Invoice validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Once the invoice is validated and :guilabel:`SEND E-WAYBILL` is clicked, a confirmation message is
> displayed at the top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the invoice is validated and :guilabel:`SEND E-WAYBILL` is clicked, a confirmation message will be
displayed at the top.
```

Odoo automatically uploads the JSON-signed file to the government portal after a while. If you want
to process the invoice immediately, you can click on :guilabel:`Process Now`.

.. image:: india/e-waybill-process.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Indian e-waybill confirmation message: "The invoice will be processed asynchronously by
         the following E-waybill service : E-waybill (IN)"

.. note::
   - You can find the JSON-signed file in the attached files, in the chatter.

Invoice PDF Report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once the E-waybill is submitted, you can print the invoice PDF report. The report includes the

> E-waybill Number and E-waybill validity date.

Reviewer 2: It is weird: so I send e-invoice then eway bill, but then send the e-invoice with the ewaybill number?  (should not we make distinction between the 2 flows: when you need IRN and not?)  In general, it would be good to also more describe the flow: when you send goods, you typically validate the picking first, then from the sale order you create the invoice based on delivered qties, ...  (just to describe a typical flow next to how it can be done directly from the invoice)

Reviewer 3: if the customer is eligible for E-invoice and the invoice is B2B or export then without IRN E-waybill is not created.
so here we consider normal E-waybill flow without IRN.

we don't want to confuse users by taking picking in the flow because technically no direct relation between picking and invoice.

instead of just telling add a message like when you transport goods at that time create E-waybill.
and By default, all businesses know what is waybill and when they need to create it.
because all businesses already follow that.

.. image:: india/invoice-report-e-waybill.png
   :align: center
   :alt: E-waybill acknowledgment number and date

.. _india/e-waybill-cancellation:

E-waybill Cancellation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you want to cancel an e-waybill, go to the :guilabel:`e-WayBill` tab of the invoice and fill out

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can tell something on how it will cancel both e-invoice and e-waybill this way?

Reviewer 3: yes, Add that if E-invoice is applicable for this invoice then it's also cancelled.
